<h1>Mile Stone Project 1</h1>
<p>I am creating a website for a new local business called Head Garden Services. I have known the owner for quite some time and he wants an online presence for his business so we discussed and decided that it would be in both of our interests for me to design a website for him. For this website we decided to keep to only 4 pages which are a Home Page, Services Page, About Me Page and a Contact Me Page. In the below I’ll discuss want I went through to complete these pages.</p>
<h2>Navigation Bar</h2>
<p>The Navigation Bar took a lot of time to complete. I made a couple of different versions and I decided the make it as two parts the top holding the logo and client contact number and, the bottom part containing the links to the various different pages. In the mobile version the bottom element turns into an interactive dropdown including the links. The top part the logo and number go from the left and right to the centre logo on top and number on the bottom. The mobile number is interactive so when you’re on mobile it takes you straight to the dial menu on your phone.</p>

<h2>Footer Bar</h2>
<p>For the footer I kept it very simple by making to divs the same size first stating this is property of the company and second stating me as the creator of this website. I had a lot of trouble getting the footer to stick to the bottom of the page. I didn’t want it fixed to the bottom permanently nor be without one so I researched ways on how to do this. I used the flex tools and it managed to stay at the bottom of the page. If you look at the bottom of this brief you’ll find an accredited link to that code. We were going to add more to the footer such as social media links but he only has Facebook at this time so we left it and might come back to me in the future to add this feature.</p>

<h2>Home Page</h2>
<p>We spoke about the home page for quite some time as this the first page that you see when the website loads. He wanted a simple page with some services, quotes and this catchphrase. At the top a few sentences to try and draw people to look into the website including the catch phrase as the last sentence. I used a photo I found off a copyright free website you’ll find the link to it in the accredited section at the bottom of the page. The second part is 4 of my clients’ most popular services with a button that send the potential customers to the services page. Below that there’s some reviews I took from his Facebook page, when it is on a website/tablet it will display 3 and on mobile it will only display 2. I used bootstrap third width and when below 767px it turns to full width that stack on top of each other.</p>

<h2>About Page</h2>
<p>For the about me page he just wanted to have a brief description on who he is, his work history and some information on his business. I used the bootstrap grid system a standard container so I could have another background image which you’ll find linked in the accredited section (I used the same image on the Contact and Services Page also). For the portrait picture of my client I used the float style to stick it to the top right of the container. When it’s on mobile it’s centred and width 100%, height auto combination to keep the image the correct proportions as well as stay within the container.</p>

<h2>Services Page</h2>
<p>For this page he wanted a brief description on the services he provides as well as an images of his work which he provided to me. I used the bootstrap grid system having the text box 75% width of the container and the image is in a div taking up the remaining 25%. The images are also Bootstrap Modals so when clicked on they appear in the middle of the page with a lime green border and a floating white cross just below the modal. I decided to get a little creative with this page, to start I have made each of services go from left to right down the page with the text sticking to the pattern of the page. The left divs are lime green and the right are grey with the text being the opposite colour for contrast as well as making it easy to read. For the titles of each section, the text is the same colour as the div but it has its own background colour which is the opposite colour so that is stands out and contrasts. The client wanted the names of the services to stand out more on the page so I thought I’d keep to the theme of the page by looping the contrast which I believe gives it a nice style. When it is on a mobile the images drop below the text and images take 100% width of the container with it going title, text and then image. I realised the modal caused some problems on the page when on mobile so I hid the modals for mobile and placed new divs to appear which were just the images with no interaction. The text also loses its left to right pattern on the page and it all gets centred which gives it a cleaner look. The divs containing the text are slightly opaque so you can see the background image threw the elements to give it a nice motional effect.</p>

<h2>Contact-Page</h2>
<p>For this page he wanted it to be simplistic and informative so I kept it to short sentences with links to all of his forms of communication. I started with a catchy sentence to draw in the customers in and straight below put his most used forms of contact, at the top it is Facebook and stated that this is his number 1 way of communication. Then had his email address which is another form of contact and finally is business number that when clicked on mobile it takes to the dial screen on the phone. At the bottom I thought it would be a nice feature to add his availability times so, I used a bootstrap graph and kept it simple with two rows and eight columns. The top row had the titles stating what the sections are and below them are days and times of availability. I kept the theme of this page with the others and used a container with the same background image. I didn’t want to break the colour theme of the website so instead of having a blue Facebook logo I kept it the same lime green but when you hover over it, it turns to Facebook blue. When you click on the Facebook logo it opens a new tab and puts you on his Facebook page in a new tab. For the contact number when you hover over it, it goes from white to lime green to alert the user it is interactive. When it goes to mobile it keeps the same page layout but it text shrinks so everything fits on the page. I used the same spacers that were used on the whisky page tutorial which gave the contact information a nice spacing and breaks it all up into its own sections.</p>

<h2>Styles</h2>
<p>I was provided with the logo of the company from the start and I decided to use the colours of the logo throughout the website as its colour theme. The light and dark green I got from the logo by extracting the colours. I decided to use grey as it worked well with the colours and used different shades of grey to separate the sections at some points on the website. I also used the dark green as borders to add that additional separation of sections. I used three different fonts which were Exo which was used previously on one of the tutorial projects. Livvic which I found and looked like a neat smooth text style. They were the dominant text styles that I used throughout the website, I used one over for the Quotes which was Kalam. I used this one only for the quotes as it resembles handwriting and I thought it would have a nice personal touch for the quotes as if reviewers wrote them on the website. For the backgrounds since they were originally really bright I used opaque overlays with a z-index of -1 so it didn’t affect the other resources on the website but darkened the background as the website’s theme is rather dark.</p>

<h2>Client Involvement</h2>
<p>The client played a big part in the design of the website from how much text he wanted on paged to the images used and colour combinations. We didn’t use a wireframe tool for this project but we used PowerPoint. We put squares on a page with a name on it of what they represented, so we got a good idea of the design he wanted. We did this for the home page and the about me page, the other two he stated what he wanted on the pages but let me design the layout. From that we went through Google Fonts to find some fonts he liked, I recommended Exo which he liked so we used it and came across Livvic which he wanted to use on the website so we did. When he went on about the layout of the home page and he said he wanted me to move some of the reviews from his Facebook page to the site I came up with the idea of finding a third font. We looked for a font that resembles hand writing which was Kalam and we went with it. The colour scheme when we started didn’t sound too visually pleasing. He wanted it to be very bright with a lot of colours and really in your face but I stated it wouldn’t look professional. I suggested from the start to use grey and the colours of the logo and when we compared the different colours with blocks of colour side by side on PowerPoint which quickly made him change his mind. All the text for the website to an extent was provided. For the about me page he provided me his work history education and ideas on what to put on the page. I then wrote it up on a word document and sent it over to him. Changes he made were removing names of companies he worked with, he saw it as advertisement for his competitors so I changed them to just businesses and companies. Apart from that he was happy with the information and the layout. For the services page he provided what exactly he does in each section with brief points and allowed me to tidy them up. When I finished the descriptions I sent them across, he had no complaints or changes about this. One thing that he was adamant about having all over the website was his catch phrase “Planting tomorrow’s dreams”. He originally wanted it on every single page but I stated that would be overkill so we agreed to have it on the home page where it fitted nicely and the last sentence of his about me page (It’s also under the logo so technically it is on every page). For the services page he provide me with images for all the sections which he wanted to be used. The images he provided weren’t the best quality as they were taken off his mobile but insisted that the site uses them and is going to be taking a camera on jobs now to get better pictures so later down the line they can be amended. </p>

<h2>Testing</h2>
<p>Whenever I completed a page I got in contact with the client and asked for his opinions on the page for improvements and changes as well as if he liked how it interacted. Overall he was happy with how all the pages came out and trusted my judgement with design ideas. One page he wanted changing around was his contact me page it, he wanted the links to be in a certain order so I reordered them to Facebook, Email and then Telephone number. When I finished the project I emailed him the deployed link on GitHub so he could go through it. We was very happy with how it all interacted on mobile, he stated “it’s simple to navigate just like I wanted it” I even showed him that the logo was a homepage link which he loved and never realised until now is quite common on websites. I was very critical of my work and every time I finished a page I stress tested it using various devices making sure the proportions worked. I also used the chrome developer tools installing almost every device as well as some wacky designs of my own to try and break the page so I could fix it pre deployment. I spent a good couple of hours when I finished the project making sure that everything worked as intended as well as got family members and friends to go onto it and let me know what they thought and if it looked correct. There were a couple of spacing issues with the home page which I changed but apart from that everything seemed to flow well. Overall all the testers that tried out my website stated there user experience was brilliant. They never needed to use the back button on the browser never struggled to navigate the pages and the text was clearly presented and easy to read.</p>

<h2>Technologies</h2>
<p>For this project I used CSS and HTML. After messing up the homepage multiple times at the beginning because, I implemented some content then styling and repeated this pattern. I then changed it and started by writing out the page in only html with some styling from bootstrap and then when it was completely fleshed out I then added CSS styling to the pages. Bootstrap is used on every single page. The grid system is what I mainly used as it is so helpful and very powerful. The majority of the divs on this website will have a Bootstrap grid style implemented into them as it assists in consistent page styles as well as great mobile/tablet/desktop compatibility. I did look into over frame works such as Google Materialise and Semantic UI but since I already learnt Bootstrap and this was my first project decided to stick to what I knew. I experimented with different sizing tools such as pixels, percentages and viewport. You’ll find there are different sizing formats for different parts of the website deciding what worked best for which section. Various bootstrap assets I implemented were graphs, interactive buttons, modals, navigation bars and of course the grid system. I used a few icons from font awesome as they worked well with bootstrap and I liked how they looked, very professional.</p>

<h2>Deployment</h2>
<p>Since this is going to be a live website that is going to go into production for the client we needed to look into hosting services. I obviously started by uploading the project to my GitHub account and setting up the hosting service it provides. This was really helpful for testing as I was able to easily distribute it to various people for testing purposes as well as the client. He fully indents on buying a domain along the lines of HGS.co.uk or HeadGardeningServices.com and has been looking into different hosting services. He was looking into different hosting services such as Google Domains, WordPress and GoDaddy. The one he is very interested in is Google Domains as the hosting is free, can have a custom email address which adds an additional level of professionalism and it can cost from $12 a year.</p>

<h2>Summary</h2>
<p>Overall I am happy with the final product, for my first website which I had multiple struggles with and persevered through I believe it came out really well. The page I’m the happiest with is the contact page it is the simplest page but I think it is the cleanest, not too much but not too little with enough information to get the point across. I tested various different layouts, colours, fonts, elements and it I think it’s come out looking professional and smart. The chrome developer tools I have learnt are a God send, every time I logged into AWS I opened a web version of the website with the developer tools and it helped me get the padding, margins, sizing and various other variables right quickly. I have now got my own way of working with HTML and CSS threw trial and error which still needs working on but works for me. I found this to be the hardest challenge so far but the biggest learning curve so far on the course. I have learnt so much from going and doing it by myself from researching it online, going back threw previous tutorials and experimenting with different styles. </p>

<h2>Accredited Links</h2>

<p>I used this to stop the button on the home page for the code to pass on HTML Validator -<a href="https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2906582/how-to-create-an-html-button-that-acts-like-a-link" target="_blank">https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2906582/how-to-create-an-html-button-that-acts-like-a-link</a></p>

<p>I used this for all the background images on the pages -<a href="https://css-tricks.com/perfect-full-page-background-image/" target="_blank"> https://css-tricks.com/perfect-full-page-background-image/</a></p>

<p>I had a real problem getting the footer stick to the bottom of the page but a found this trip. I used technique 4 - <a href="https://css-tricks.com/couple-takes-sticky-footer/" target="_blank">https://css-tricks.com/couple-takes-sticky-footer/</a></p>

<p>Homepage background image - <a href="https://www.pexels.com/photo/garden-7283/" target="_blank">https://www.pexels.com/photo/garden-7283/</a></p>

<p>Services, About and Contact Page background image - <a href="https://www.pexels.com/photo/background-bright-close-up-environment-413195/" target="_blank">https://www.pexels.com/photo/background-bright-close-up-environment-413195/</a></p>

<p>Telephone number interaction  - <a href="https://css-tricks.com/the-current-state-of-telephone-links/" target="_blank">https://css-tricks.com/the-current-state-of-telephone-links/</a></p>

<p>I went to this website a lot for quick reminders on certain styles - <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/" target="_blank">https://www.w3schools.com/</a></p>

<p>Mainframe of project - <a href="https://getbootstrap.com/" target="_blank">https://getbootstrap.com/</a></p>
